New blog post on istioctl analyze in 1.4 (#5664)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2019/introducing-istioctl-analyze/index.md

Istio configuration, as well as gives general insights to improve your configuration.
It can run against a live cluster or a set of local configuration files.
It can also run against a combination of the two, allowing you to catch problems before you
apply changes to a cluster.

To get started with it in just minutes, head over to the [documentation](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/).

## Designed to be approachable for novice users

One of the key design goals that we followed for this feature is to make it extremely approachable.
This is achieved by making the command useful without having to pass any required complex parameters.

In practice, here are some of the scenarios that it goes after:

- *"There is some problem with my cluster, but I have no idea where to start"*
- *"Things are generally working, but I'm wondering if there is anything I could improve"*

In that sense, it is very different from some of the more advanced diagnostic tools, which go
after scenarios along the lines of (taking `istioctl proxy-config` as an example):

- *"Show me the Envoy configuration for this specific pod so I can see if anything looks wrong"*

> This can be very useful for advanced debugging, but it requires a lot of expertize before you

Reviewer: s/expertize/expertise/

Author: I think US spelling is with a z, no? :)

Reviewer: US does mess up z/c/s a lot, but not in this case :) "expertise" is definitely what you want. "expertize" does exist, but I had never heard it before I saw it here.

Author: That's why I despize English ;)

can figure out that you need to run this specific command, and which pod to run it on.

> So really, the one-line pitch for `analyze` is: just run it! It's completely safe, it takes no thinking,

Reviewer: It might be worth tossing in an example usage to drive home the "it takes no thinking" point.

Author: I thought about that but didn't want to just duplicate what we have in the doc. Though I'd be open to expand that later if we think that would help.

it might help you, and at worst, you'll have wasted a minute!

## Improving this tool over time

In Istio 1.4, `analyze` comes with a nice set of analyzers that can detect a number of common issues.
But this is just the beginning, and we are planning to keep growing and fine tuning the analyzers with
each release.

In fact, we would welcome suggestions from Istio users. Specifically, if you encounter a situation
where you think an issue could be detected via configuration analysis, but is not currently flagged

> by `analyze`, please do let us know. The best way to do this is to [open an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues).

Reviewer: Is there a specific tag to guide people to add to issues to help us triage these issues?

Author: We don't have an exact tag for this. The issue template has 'checkbox', so issues get triaged pretty easily.

---
title: Introducing istioctl analyze
description: Analyze your Istio configuration to detect potential issues and get general insights.
publishdate: 2019-11-14
subtitle:
attribution: David Ebbo (Google)
keywords: [debugging,istioctl,configuration]
target_release: 1.4
---

> {{< boilerplate experimental-feature-warning >}}

Reviewer 2: I don't think this banner is appropriate in a blog. It should be in the actual doc, which it is. In the blog just say `... introduces an experimental new tool to help you analyze ...`

(Side note: we generally avoid using words like `powerful`)

Istio 1.4 introduces a powerful new tool to help you analyze and debug your clusters running Istio.

> `istioctl analyze` is a powerful Istio diagnostic tool that can detect potential issues with your

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[`istioctl analyze`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-experimental-analyze) is a diagnostic tool that detects potential issues with your
```

> Istio configuration, as well as give general insights on improving your configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Istio configuration, as well as gives general insights to improve your configuration.
```

It can run against a live cluster or a set of local configuration files.
It can also run against a combination of the two, allowing you to catch problems before you
apply changes to a cluster.

To get started with it in just minutes, head over to the [documentation](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/).

## Designed to be approachable for novice users

One of the key design goals that we followed for this feature is to make it extremely approachable.
This is achieved by making the command useful without having to pass any required complex parameters.

In practice, here are some of the scenarios that it goes after:

- *"There is some problem with my cluster, but I have no idea where to start"*

> - *"Things are generally working, but I'm wondering is there is anything I could improve"*

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- *"Things are generally working, but I'm wondering if there is anything I could improve"*
```
